Update Rule “practice-makes-perfect/rule” (#3559)
SSWConsulting/SSW.Rules.Content: rules/practice-makes-perfect/rule.md

related: []
created: 2022-06-29T21:46:41.000Z
archivedreason: null
guid: d63b2932-4f03-4368-adb3-c3853587755e
---

So you have a shiny PowerPoint deck with heaps of great content, and you know what you want to say! Are you ready to present? No, not yet.

You need to practise it so that you know your stuff backwards as well as forwards.

`youtube: https://youtu.be/jPwNwNdE7pE`

::: good
**Figure: Good example - you need to practise your content forwards and backwards to be as good as Victor Borge.**
:::

These 5 steps can improve the delivery of a speech immensely (inspired by [Vinh Giang](https://www.vinhgiang.com/)):

<!--endintro-->

1. Record the "test please".
2. Do an audio audit – play the recording, only listen to the audio (don’t look at the video).

   👀 Check: are you speaking too fast/too slow? Are you pausing appropriately? Voice stressing/pausing on important points? Are you too loud/too soft?

   ::: info
   Tip: PowerPoint’s "Rehearse with Coach" will give you immediate feedback when practising.
   :::

3. Do a visual audit – play the recording, this time looking at the video only (turn down the volume to zero, so that you can’t hear the audio).

>    👀 Check: How is your body language? Moving your hands less/more? (more hand movement means more distraction) Eye contact? Posture? Are you smiling or do you look stunned?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   👀 Check: How is your body language? Do stuff (more hand movement means more distraction) Eye contact? Posture? Are you smiling or do you look stunned?
```
